Docs / update docs for workspaces (#56)
Videodock/ott-web-app: docs/workspaces.md

# Workspaces

## Why workspaces?

> The JW OTT Web App is an open-source repository that showcases an OTT app implementing JWP services. The OTT Web App, as
> the name implies, originates as a web only repository. But much of the source-code can be re-used for many different
> platforms. Like; Capacitor, React Native, and other frameworks based on TypeScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JW OTT Web App is an open-source repository that showcases an OTT app implementing JWP services. The OTT Web App, as
the name implies, originates as a web only repository. But much of the source-code can be re-used for many different
platforms, such as CapacitorJS, React Native, LightningJS and other frameworks based on TypeScript.
```

> Using the previous codebase, it would be quite challenging to re-use the services because of the dependencies and
> browser usage. For example, the AccountController could redirect a user to a different page by using `window.location`.
> This will never work in a non-browser environment and will crash the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the codebase as it was, it would've been quite challenging to re-use the services, because of the dependencies and browser usage. For example, the AccountController could redirect a user to a different page by using `window.location`. This would never work in a non-browser environment and would crash the app.
```

Reviewer 2: I actually consider Chris his text more correctly (your other suggestions are quite good though!)

> This means that we need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that we had to:
```

Reviewer 2: I like it more in the current form instead of the past (relatable to my previous comment)

- Make some of the shareable code platform-agnostic
- Make some of the shareable code framework-agnostic
- Make importing services, controllers, stores, and utils possible in any other projects/platforms
- Benefit from linting based on the environment (Node, Browser, Vite, ...)

## The solution

Based on the re-usability of parts of the existing codebase, we've created separate modules using Yarn Workspaces.
This will combine all similar code and prevent installing redundant or conflicting dependencies.

> For example, all components, containers, and pages are be combined into the `packages/ui-react` module, which depends on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, all components, containers, and pages are combined into the `packages/ui-react` module, which depends on
```

> react and react-dom. To create a React Native app, you could add an `packages/ui-react-native` module and configure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
react and react-dom. To create a React Native app, you could add a `packages/ui-react-native` module and configure
```

aliases to use the correct module.

## Packages & Platforms

A split has been made between the platform and reusable code. All reusable code is further split into multiple packages.

> This is mostly to separate the React from the non-react code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is mostly done to separate the React from the non-react code.
```

Here is a breakdown of each module:

### Common

Name: `@jwp/ott-common`

> The common module contains all non-react TypeScript code reusable between multiple frameworks. These are controllers,
> services, stores, utilities, and typings. There should be no platform-specific dependencies like React or React DOM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The common module contains all non-react TypeScript code, reusable between multiple frameworks. These are controllers,
services, stores, utilities and typings. There should be no platform-specific dependencies like React or React DOM.
```

Typings can also be reused for multiple frameworks.

TypeScript is configured to prevent browser typings. You don't have access to Browser globals like `localStorage` or
`location`.

**Example usage:**

```ts
import { configureEnv } from '@jwp/ott-common/src/env';

configureEnv({
  APP_VERSION: 'v1.0.0',
});
```

### React Hooks

Name: `@jwp/ott-hooks-react`

Hooks are special because they are React-dependent but can be shared between the React and React Native frameworks.

> That’s why they are in a separate folder for use between the two frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That’s why they are in a separate folder for usage from both the two frameworks.
```

> ### I18n (TODO)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### i18n (TODO)
```

Name: `@jwp/ott-i18n`

We’re using i18next, which is also a framework-independent library. We can re-use the configuration and translation
files between all platforms.

### Testing

Name: `@jwp/ott-testing`

This module can contain all test fixtures and perhaps some generic test utils. But it shouldn’t contain
CodeceptJS/Playwright-specific code.

### Theme (TODO)

Name: `@jwp/ott-theme`

The most important theming comes from the app config, but many other SCSS variables can be abstracted into generic (
JSON) tokens. These tokens can be used across multiple frameworks.

Raw SVG icons are added here as well.

The theme folder also contains generic assets like images, logos, and fonts.

### UI-react

Name: `@jwp/ott-ui-react`

The ui-react package contains all the existing React UI code.

> The ui-react package also contains the SCSS variables and theme for use across more platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ui-react package also contains the SCSS variables and theme for usage across multiple platforms.
```

### Platforms/web

Name: `@jwp/ott-web`

The web folder is located in the platforms directory in the project's root folder. A platform is the entry point for
platform-specific code. In the case of the web platform, this is all the Vite.js configuration and App.tsx for
bootstrapping the app.

We can add more platforms by adding a folder to the platforms folder.

> Each platform is a standalone application that may use other modules defined in the packages folder as dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each platform is a standalone application that may use other modules defined in the packages folder as dependencies.
```
